This video we'll take a look at what's new for high availability in VSE fair 6.5.
And there are a few big changes to the feature set of high availability and 6.5 some really great new
features that can help us not only respond to outages but actually prevent them.
And that's where proactive ha comes in proactive high availability is a way to prevent outages and we
know with high availability if you have a host failure or something along those lines.
Ha normally involves downtime.
If we have an H.A. type event we're going to have virtual machines that are down proactive high availability
seeks to avoid preventable downtime by detecting hardware issues and proactively migrating virtual machines
to different hosts.
Proactive ha actually works with hardware vendors different monitoring solutions to find out about the
health status of hardware components like things like power supplies memory fan storage systems network
systems.
And then we can configure high availability to respond according to the failures of these hardware components.
So this can help us avoid downtime for our virtual machines by detecting hardware failures and then
taking that host and performing some sort of action on it.
And one of those possibilities is that a host can be placed in something called quarantine mode.
Now this feature does require duress.
We can't enable proactive high availability unless we have Deros enabled.
Right so proactive high availability is actually using the motion.
And don't confuse that with normal H.A. are usually H.A. does not use the motion.
Usually a host fails and then those virtual machines are booted up on other ESX hosts.
And that's not Wii motion.
It requires shared storage but it's not Wii motion.
Proactive ha actually uses Wii motion to migrate virtual machines with no downtime.
OK.
So when we set up a cluster with proactive high availability there's a couple of different automation
levels that we can choose.
Number one we can choose a manual mode and this is very similar to dress.
All right so if we set up proactive ha in manual mode what will happen is if there is some sort of problem
detected on the hosts The center will give us suggestions about where virtual machine should be relocated
to.
But it won't automatically move any VM to different hosts.
Whereas with automated mode virtual machines will be automatically migrated to hosts that are healthy
and the hosts that are in a problematic state are the degraded hosts will be entered into either quarantine
or maintenance mode depending on how we've configured proactive ha Wennberg configuring proactive ha
we can choose from a few different options of host modes.
The first host so that we can choose from is called quarantine mode and quarantine mode basically just
dictates that no new VM additions can be made on that host.
So no new virtual machines are or any move to that host by the IRS.
It's essentially going to sit there with all of the victims that are currently on it but just no new
VMS will be added to that host.
Whereas with mixed mode all of the Reems will continue to run on that host unless there's some sort
of severe hardware failure.
Right.
So in mixed mode proactive HA is not going to move anything.
It's not going to do any of the motions unless the failure is something severe.
All right whereas with maintenance mode proactive ha will place that host that's degraded into maintenance
mode and migrate every single virtual machine off that host using the motion
Another new feature of high availability in six top 6.5 is orchestrated restart.
And the purpose of orchestrated restart is to allow high availability to restart virtual machines in
a specified order.
So if we need to have certain virtual machines that have dependencies on each other orchestrated restart
is a great way to control the order in which those virtual machines boot up.
Like for example let's say that we have multi tier applications.
Maybe we have virtual machines that are web servers database servers and application servers and all
of these via EMS work together to deliver an application.
So maybe it's a web application and we need the web layer to deliver the Web site.
We need the application layer and on the back end we need a database.
These sorts of applications typically don't work properly unless the virtual machines involved boot
up in the appropriate order.
So for example we could create groups of virtual machines like a group of virtual machines called web
servers.
And that group will contain all of the Web servers in this multi-tier application.
And then we can create other groups of search machines called the application servers for the three
tier application and the database servers.
And once we've created these groups then we can start to establish dependency rules right.
So if a host fails high availability will restart the VM and the database servers group first right
we can create a rule for this and then once that group is completed it will move onto the application
servers group and then maybe we could create another rule that says both the application servers group
and then boot the Web servers group right so we can get all of these rules in this logic to ensure that
if we have a multi-tier application that the appropriate components are launched in the appropriate
order.
That's all orchestrated restart is all about enabling the ordered restart of virtual machines and the
establishment of dependencies.
Finally there's some big changes to admission control and vse fair 6.5.
Some things that you may not have even noticed if you just took a quick glance on it.
But the biggest difference is the defaulted Mission Control Policy.
It is controlled by cluster resource percentage.
So if you ever worked with the host failures that cluster tolerates at mission control method and you
might be familiar with slot size the slot sizes how high availability use to sort of determine what
amount of resources were available and what amount of resources were required to be reserved for Fagel
over.
And it was honestly a little bit of a difficult system to work with because slot size could get skewed
by virtue machines with large reservations.
It was just complicated.
And what happened is a lot of the times people would just turn off at mission control because they couldn't
figure out why it wasn't working properly and why it wasn't allowing them to boot up virtual machines.
Admission control kind of took the best of both admission control policies and combined them into one.
So here's how it works.
Now you'll go in and enable admission control and you'll say something like Well I want to tolerate
one host failure.
Well that's what we've always done it right.
But what's actually happening under the surface is your cluster center server is actually going to look
at the cluster and determine well what's the actual percentage of resources that I need.
Right.
In order to satisfy this admission control policy what percentage of resources do I need to hold back.
We don't use slide size for this anymore.
That's the big improvement as all of that complexity involved with managing a slot size is now eliminated.
Right so let's take a look at a screen shot here is that Mission Control we're specifying.
We want to tolerate one host failure and we're going to determine the host fail over capacity by cluster
resource percentage instead of slot size here.
So we still have multiple options but this is really the best way to do it let's figure out our failover
capacity required by cluster resource percentage instead of slot size.
Right.
And we can even establish acceptable levels of performance degradation.
So here at the bottom we see performance degradation VAMC to tolerate.
And what that means is basically the amount of performance reduction that we're willing to handle after
a failure so high availability will actually monitor virtual machine performance data based on distributed
resource scheduler to determine whether or not there's enough capacity to continue performing adequately
after a failover so that we can do is say you know we can do 100 percent right.
Hundred percent is actually disabling this warning or we can say 0 percent right we want everything
to perform exactly the same even if there's a host failure.
So this percentage allows us to kind of forecast and prepare for what percentage of performance impact
we are willing to handle if a host failure does occur.